---
layout: post
title: "CAKE - a php app framework"
date: 2005-04-20
comments: false
category: php
tags: [cake,framework,mvc]
---
I was just looking at [CAKE](http://sputnik.pl/cake/) \- a pretty slick
looking PHP application framework that I was directed to by
[digitalmediaminute](http://www.digitalmediaminute.com/). Overall it looks
very slick and easy to use. My only caveat is that it appears you need a full
copy of the framework for each application on the server. I guess that is OK
in some regards - you can have some apps using different versions of the
framework (which may or may not be a good thing). However, I like the idea
implemented in mach-ii that lets you invoke the framework from within your
application while only having a single instance of the app on your server.  

Truth be told I don't know if you can do that with[ mach-ii for
PHP](http://php.mach-ii.com/) but you can for CF. Another truth though is
while I have read all about [mach-ii](http://www.mach-ii.com/), played with
it, and had a great desire to use it, I haven't been able to. All of my
current projects are on CF 5! And I haven't had spare time to do anything fun
with either CF MX or 7.  

I am also trying to learn [Ruby ](http://www.ruby-lang.org/)but have had quite
a bit of trouble just getting[ ruby to work on my windows
box](http://rubyforge.org/projects/rubyinstaller/) with apache. So if anyone
has any tips on that I'm open to suggestions/advice/help. I really want to dig
into the inspiration behind cake - [Ruby on
Rails](http://www.rubyonrails.org/) which looks VERY COOL.  

Then maybe I can start development on
[lootly!](http://rawlinson.us/blog/?p=179)
