---
layout: post
title: "Great Javascript Form Validation"
date: 2005-05-16
comments: false
category: javascript
tags: [validation]
---
Someone else blogged about this last week - but I feel I have to mention it
just incase you missed it. Over at [Massimo's
Corner](http://massimocorner.com) is a fantastic bit of javascript.  

It deals with the ever present issue of form validation. However, [this
library](http://www.massimocorner.com/validator/) is really, really, well
thought out, written, and - most importantly - documented.  

Even if you already have your own homebrewed form validation library written
you really should check out
[massimo's](http://www.massimocorner.com/validator/). Its elegantly written,
unobtrusive, and highly extensible.  

I will be trying it out on my next project.

## Comments

Anonymous

The lib syntax looks very clean, like the jValidate. Greatly appreciate your
work. Thanks.  
-John

flawlor

I am looking for a js validation library and the TMT library looks very good,
but the then I noticed the licensing: "No redistribution"!  

I'm doing some work for a non-profit and need to distribute our app so this is
a killer. Too bad.  

Also, many apps these days uses Struts, Spring and other frameworks which take
over the form tag. This prevents simply adding form tag attributes as is
required by TMT. He should document how to work around this.

Cobold

Thanks for the library, it saved me days of work.

Bill

I'm not entirely sure what your asking for; but if you aren't requiring hidden
fields (that were previously visible and required) you can just use Javascript
to 'unrequire' them.  

I honestly don't use this library (though I think it is a very good one). I
have my own, much lighter, validation script that I use. It isn't necessarilly
as flexible or as well documented as Massimo's though.

Anonymous

how do u do conditional validation based on whether or not the object is
hidden?

massimo foti

Well, I wrote the documentation hoping it would reduce the amount of support
calls :-)  

BTW I just posted a minor update. Fixed an elusive bug, improved file upload
patterns and the "demoronizer" filter

Bill

You earned all of the praise. I am probably more impressed with the level of
documentation than I am with the validation library (and the library is pretty
slick).  

thanks again for sharing it with everyone.

Massimo Foti

Thanks for the nice words Bill :-)  

Massimo
