---
layout: post
title: "winamp, itunes, and my ipods"
date: 2005-05-11
comments: false
category: general
tags: [music,winamp,itunes]
---
When Lisa and I first bought our home she also bought me a 30gb iPod as a
house warming present. At about that time I [switched to
iTunes](http://rawlinson.us/blog/?p=62) as my music player because of the fact
that I could manage my iPods music with it. However, I have never been truly
happy with iTunes. Sure, it is pretty nice - but it could be better. Just last
week in fact I was lamenting about some of it's shortcomings to my friend
Jason.

He had asked me if I would recommed getting an iPod and if there was anything
about them I didn't like. Honestly, there is nothing about the hardware I
dislike. However, as I talked to him about it a couple of things came to mind
that really annoy my about iTunes. First, I can't easilly get music off of my
iPod and back onto my computer. For instance if I buy a song at the iTunes
music store at work, put it on my iPod, and then go home, there is no way for
me to add that song to my library (well there is, but I have to use other
software). Another thing that irks me is that the ratings I apply to music on
the road are lost on my copy of the song in the library. It would be great if
I could synchronize just the meta data from my iPod to the iTunes library if
it won't let me copy the whole song. But, alas, I can't. At least not with
iTunes.



Today I upgraded to [winamp 5.09](http://www.winamp.com/) and while doing so I
noticed a [plugin called
ml_pod](http://winamp.com/plugins/details.php?id=138888) that claims to
provide iPod integration! Well, I had to check it out - and so far, I'm
impressed.



After our trip to Vegas I bought an iPod Shuffle. My shuffle is associated
with my home PC. So, when I am at work if I plug it into the USB port iTunes
tells me it can't do anything with it other than erase its contents and
replace them. However, ml_pod has no such qualms. Instead it loaded it's
contents into the media library pane and let me start listening through my
computer's speakers. Sweet! Not only that but it appears I can synch ratings
or sync the whole deal. Plus I can easilly pull music off of the iPod and put
it on my machine. That will come in handy tonight when I upgrade my home PC
because I downloaded 3 more new songs recently while at work and will want
them in my main library at home.



All isn't perfect though. First it doesn't have the autofill option that
iTunes has for the shuffle, but frankly, I can live without that. And if I
want that I can just fire up iTunes every once in a while. Another potential
problem is if Apple changes the format of the information stored on the
devices drasticly with an update to iTunes. At that point ml_pod will not work
and I'll have to wait for an update. However, it seems like the ml_pod
developer, Will Stevens, is on his game and won't let ml_pod fall too far
behind.



I've only been using it for an hour now so It is hard to say if it is my new
favorite music player - but definitely put winamp back in the race. And for
now, it is the only one I will use at work since iTunes is useless to me here.

## Comments

Bill

Thanks for the tip. Ihave actually switched to using MediaMonkey - as it
better serves all of my needs than either iTunes or winamp currently.

Anonymous

Winamp 5.2 now has an Autofill feature;
