---
layout: post
title: "Model-Glue :  Getting My Toes Wet"
date: 2005-11-01
comments: false
category: coldfusion
tags: [modelglue,framework,mvc]
---
Today begins my foray into Model-Glue; a CF framework developed by Joe
Rinehart and available for [download at http://model-glue.com/](http://model-
glue.com/).  

I plan on documenting my experience here. However, before I do that I want to
provide you a little background. I have been using CF pretty heavilly for the
last 6+ years however I have never used one of the public/popular frameworks.
No Fusebox, no Mach-II, no onTap, nothing. Well, nothing isn't really true.
What I have been using are two inhouse frameworks that work pretty well. The
first is sort of like Fusebox (the oldest version) and was developed here back
in 1999. The second is much heavier and provides a full API that various
programs/datastores can plug into. Neither is anything like Model-Glue.  

However, I have been interested in the various frameworks (Well, except for
Fusebox) particularly Mach-II. When I first read about it I was very excited
but my hectic work schedule has made a proper investigation and/or
incorporation into a project nearly impossible. Today, however, I find myself
unbillable. That means I have an opportunity for professional development and
I have chosen to look at Model-Glue.  

Why Model-Glue then instead of Mach-II? Well, quite frankly, Sean Corfield and
ColdSpring. I think [ColdSpring](http://www.coldspringframework.org/) looks
like an excellent project and I as a Java developer as well, I fully
appreciate the newly integrated AOP work that has been done. Sean is a
developer whose opinion on CF related matters I feel I can trust. He strikes
me as a very knowledgable person about development in general and, more
importantly, someone who isn't afraid to say what he really thinks about
something. [His growing excitement
for](http://corfield.org/blog/index.cfm/do/blog.entry/entry/400C3F00-AC4B-
A7F0-3C7AC08CF7947335), and heightened opinion of, Model-Glue convinced me to
check it out first.  

My plan is to build a simple app with Model-Glue (MG) and then revamp it to
utilize ColdSpring. I'm not particularly good at coming up with basic apps so
I'm going to steal Seans idea, kind of, and build a Todo list application.
Except I won't have a persistence mechanism so all the Todo's will disappear
when the application is restarted.  

If this goes smoothly, perhaps I will use M-G in the next project I have to do
for a customer.  

As I figure things out and discover useful tidbits I will be posting them here
as well. In that vein I want to point you to Wayne Graham's blog posting on
[ModelGlue.xml
Entities](http://swem.wm.edu/blogs/waynegraham/index.cfm/2005/7/21/model-glue-
entities). I have already updated my application template ModelGlue.xml file
to incorporate this idea so that any future MG apps I write will have this
idea included in the starting point.
