---
layout: post
title: "Firebug, Firefox 1.506 and Gmail"
date: 2006-08-09
comments: false
category: firefox
tags: [firebug,gmail]
---
Just a few posts ago I was raving about how great Firebug is. Sadly, I have
had to disable the extension already. Firefox, at times, can be slow on its
own but it is still my preferred browser (though Opera 9 is very nice).
However, with firebug activated my tendency to leave Gmail running in an open
tab at all times just brings Firefox to a near standstill and, quite frankly,
as much as I like firebug I like Gmail even more (I just love that
conversation view).  

So, for the time being I'm off the firebug bandwagon.  

Damn.

## Comments

Bill

Thanks for the hack Paul!

Paul Chaplin

Hi Bill. I came across this entry when searching for anyone experiencing the
same problem with FireBug and Gmail, but sadly, your post was as close as I
came to finding a solution... So I gave in and [hacked one together
myself](http://www.paulchaplin.com/blog/firebug-and-gmail-friends-at-last/) \-
full do-it-yourself instructions are included, for the rightfully-wary of my
hacked XPI.  

Hopefully, Joe Hewitt will include a customisable domain filtering mechnanism
in a future version (it's already a feature request), but until then, this
might help.  

Regards,  
Paul

Bill

Gmail is better than what? It is my preferred email system. But if you
comparing it to firebug - it's apples to oranges. Firebug is a debugging
plugin for firefox; it is great for evaluating javascript problems in
webpages.

Apple

I think gmail is better. Have switched to it since it came into the market.

Anonymous

I Love Firebug! Especially lately because I have been doing a ton of AJAX
development and it is so handy to see the passing of the calls and returns.
But I can see that gmail might be a problem.
