---
layout: post
title: "I Heart Hardy"
date: 2008-04-26
comments: false
categories:
 - linux
 - hardy-heron
 - windows
---
Well, I'm not entirely sure I love Hardy Heron but I did like the install
process - it couldn't be any easier. I downloaded the iso, burnt a cd, and did
a quick install. Once it was done installing I logged in and BAM! everything
worked. I'm amazed at how far Linux has come.  
  
The first time I ever tried Linux (Slackware) was in 1995 on a POS (not point
of sale) Compaq I had bought while in the Army. It installed but man was it a
pain to get working. In fact, at the time it was so shaky that I was offered a
Job with an ISP in Portland Oregon if I could successfully get the machine
connecting to the net within Linux (using the built in dial-up). You would
think that was an easy task but I basically would have had to hand crafted the
drivers for my modem (something I knew nothing about at the time).  
  
Now, here I am 13 years later on a Dell XPS laptop (M170) and I had to click 2
buttons and provide minimal information (my name, a username, and my timezone)
and the whole thing was installed. I didn't have to figure out partitions or
tweak an odd boot loader to get things running. Instead it just did. Very
nice.  
  
The first thing I have done so far is post this blog post. Next I'll muck
around with customizing the environment and getting my development
environments running (Apache, Eclipse, PHP, CF, Ruby for fun) and see where I
go from there. If I can get the secure remote desktop working with one of our
clients then perhaps this will become my primary dev machine over my windows
box.  
  
To be honest I don't mind windows in general. I'm comfortable in it. I use an
alternate shell (GeoShell with Launchy). The only thing I might miss from
windows is Media Monkey. I haven't found a music library manager I like nearly
as much.  
  
After I get everything installed that I need I'll let you know what I think.

