---
layout: post
title: "Coldfusion Is NOT a programming language"
date: 2008-05-21
comments: false
categories:
 - coldfusion
 - turing
---
According to the May 2008 [TIOBE Software
Index](http://www.tiobe.com/index.php/content/paperinfo/tpci/index.html) (that
which measures the popularity of different languages being used in the
Software Development profession) CF is no longer ranked. It isn't anywhere
within the top 100 items listed, it isn't in any of the past archives has
having been popular, and it won't be included again.  
  
Why? Because it is a framework (akin to asp or jsp) and is not a programming
language.  
  
The definition TIOBE uses is that a language is only a programming language if
it is Turing Complete. A simple definition of Turing Completeness is if it is
able to compute any function computable. It is still counted even if it takes
the language a huge amount of time and memory to complete this function.  
  
So is ColdFusion not turing complete? I don't know if I buy that or not and
nor do I like the negative light this shines on ColdFusion. The Tiobe index is
regularly referred to as a good metric for platform viability and not having
CF on there could be a serious blow.  
  
Can anyone confirm that CF is not Turing Complete (or can anyone prove it is?)
I'm very interested in seeing what others think about this turn of events and
the current classification of CF.  
  
UPDATE:  
I've taken the two links from Jeff's comment and hyperlinked them here:  
  
<http://www.forta.com/blog/index.cfm/2008/5/5/TIOBE-From-Hype-To-Fiction>  
<http://www.forta.com/blog/index.cfm/2008/5/6/TIOBE-Responds>  
  
The net result seems to be that Coldfusion isn't a programming language but
CFML is. Of course, almost everyone who talks about CFML uses the term
ColdFusion to refer to it so it naturally skews CFML down in the list at Tiobe
(to presently #135) since Tiobe uses search engine queries to rank the various
languages. It seems like a bit of a cop out on Tiobe's part to not include
"ColdFusion" as a substitute for CFML.  
  
Sorry I missed the hubbub at the beginning of the month. I clearly don't read
enough blogs :O)

## Comments

Bill

thanks Jeff - I totally missed it!

jeff

There wasa huge buzz at the begining of the month about this.  
  
http://www.forta.com/blog/index.cfm/2008/5/5/TIOBE-From-Hype-To-Fiction  
  
http://www.forta.com/blog/index.cfm/2008/5/6/TIOBE-Responds

