---
layout: post
title: "Google Video Chat First Impression"
date: 2008-11-13
comments: false
categories:
 - video-conferencing
 - video-chat
 - gmail
 - google
---
I tried out Google Video Chat today with a co-worker in the same office as me.
It was rumored by some that the client would establish a direct connection
(peer-to-peer) between the two chatting parties but I don't think one is.
Instead I get the feeling all of the data is going to Google and then back to
the other person in the chat which causes some noticeable lag times in
rendering motion or changes in facial expression. While lag is fairly typical
for most video chat solutions I've used in the past the amount I noticed in
the Google client seemed excessive.  
  
Audio transmission on the other hand seemed fine. My friend didn't have a
webcam but did have a mic so he was able to send just voice to me and it
appeared on my speakers with only a minimal delay; had we not been in the same
room it wouldn't have been noticable. However, audio chat, without the video
element, is fairly useless in general since I can just pick up the phone.  
  
With that said I think the Google offering will only get better with time.
Plus, if you are overseas and want to have some voice communication with a
friend then using the audio-chat feature would be a good economical (free)
choice.  
  
Setup was a snap. I just had to install a browser plugin (works with pretty
much every modern browser) and then restart my browsers. I didn't have to make
any configuration changes on my machine or identify my USB webcam, the chat
plugin found it and activated it without issue.  
  
Performance problems alone might be enough to deter many from using the client
but I think it is worth keeping an eye on to see where it goes from here. I
wouldn't be surprised if an API comes out that lets other websites incorporate
the Google Video Chat plugin in the future which would be a nice feature for
many small business that couldn't afford to provide live video support via
other means.

## Comments

Daryl James

Good post. I agree that it'll get better. I just wonder how long it'll be in
beta (ha ha).

