---
layout: post
title: "2 Years of Grand Central/Google Voice Usage"
date: 2009-07-27
comments: false
categories:
 - phone number
 - google-voice
 - grandcentral
 - phone
 - google
---
I was lucky enough to get a GrandCentral account about 2 years ago and,
initially, I thought - "wow, this is really cool." Now that two years have
gone by, and everyone is getting a Google Voice account, I thought I should
share my more refined opinion.  
  
It's still really cool.  
  
I'm not going to say it's all roses and there is nothing that could be
improved; but for my usage it pretty much rocks.  
  
Right off the bat it's ability to record voicemail came in very handy for me.
I was heading to Hong Kong for five weeks and, as it turns out, when someone
was going to leave voicemail on my normal phone it was going to cost me
international minutes (or at least it would cost me international minutes to
listen to it). I honestly didn't understand the logic behind that but it
seemed pretty damn unacceptable. Thus, GrandCentral's voicemail feature was a
real boon.  
  
I basically just setup the system to "Do Not Disturb" me for the next five
weeks and to route all my calls straight to voicemail. I also told everyone I
knew that my cellphone number had changed to my GrandCentral number. Thus
there was little chance that someone would accidentally call me and force me
to use an international calling plan. Since I was in Hong Kong for work, and
at a computer for about 16 hours a day(working) I could quickly pull up the
voicemail via the web dashboard, listen to it, and respond right away if it
was really important.  
  
Another great advantage to the service, for me, is that I give everyone this
one number and they don't have to know if it is my desk number, my cell
number, or my home number - they just get a hold of me. Granted, this is a
pretty small feature from my perspective, but it's still pretty handy - I only
have to remember one number to tell people; and my business card is a little
less cluttered.  
  
One of the cooler features is the ability to assign a different greeting to
different people or groups in your contacts. I have a group setup for my co-
workers, another set up for customers, another for my family, etc. This way
when my family calls but I can't answer they don't have to wade through my
boring business greeting - and I can still have some fun with my family
greeting.  
  
One area where I think the groups could come in handy is if, for some strange
reason, I ever had to leave my current employment, the companies customers
wouldn't have to change their records to reach my company. I would just route
them all to my old work number and our secretary could route them to the right
person. Hopefully, I'll never have to test that feature out but I can see the
value.  
  
One cool usage scenario for the separate greetings I had happened the fall
after I first signed up. I started a small side business selling buffalo
themed hats in honor of our local university (Marshall). My business was
"HerdHats.com" (domain now dead) and I was giving out small business cards at
the games for people who were on the fence about buying one. I set my default
greeting on the service to be a "HerdHats" one but my co-workers, customers,
and family never had to hear it - just anyone who I didn't really know. It
worked out really well.  
  
I also like the online SMS log. I've read a few people talking about [how SMS
doesn't work that well](http://www.hung-truong.com/blog/2009/07/16/to-google-
voice-or-not-to-google-voice/), but so far, for me, it has been great. My
friends on other networks have SMS'd my Google Voice number and I've
responded, and it's worked fine from right within the native IPhone SMS app -
plus my SMS conversation is logged in the Google Voice dashboard.  
  
The transcription of voice-mails is a cool idea that just doesn't work all
that well yet. However, I imagine it will get better as time goes by.
Currently I'd say it gets about 10% of the message right so, obviously, it
isn't very useful yet - but eventually I figure it will provide me with a good
indication of what is in the message before I even load it up for listening.  
  
One other area I have run into problems is with some mobile services. I can't
think of the names of them right now but in order to use them you have to
provide your cell number and they will SMS you a signup code. For some reason
my signup code doesn't make it to me via the Google SMS so I end up having to
give my real cell number. That is kind of a pain since I haven't even told
anyone my cell number in two years so it is kind of easy to forget; plus, can
you really call it a global number if it doesn't work globally?  
  
I'm also not thrilled with thee the mobile web interface. It's OK but I think
I'd prefer a native app. Earlier over 3G the site was really slow and I
couldn't load any of the voicemail to listen to it. However, right now I'm on
our WiFi (barely) and the site and the voicemail both loaded just fine. I'm
not sure what's going on with that.  
  
My final beef is caller id. A bunch of my co-workers recently got Google Voice
and so I put their numbers in my contacts list (and removed their mobile
numbers initially). However, when they called my Google Voice number from
their cell phone they then showed up as unknown contacts. I was hoping Google
Voice would intelligently map the cell number to the Google Voice number that
is registered with the cell. Thus I've re-added their mobile numbers as
"other" numbers in Google Contacts (which syncs fine with my IPhone 3G).  
  
One thing to remember is that the international calling discount is only
available from the US to a foreign country. Thus, when I was in Hong Kong (or
London) I couldn't save any money by dialing up GrandCentral to make my
international call - in fact if it worked at all it probably would have just
cost me the normal international rate + the GrandCentral rate.  
  
Overall I'm very happy with the service that is provided by Google Voice;
particularly considering it is free. I really can't imagine going back to my
old way of managing my phone numbers. It's also been very useful since we have
cut back our home landline to a minimum usage plan so now all the people who
used to call me there were switched to my GrandCentral number years ago and
we've just stopped routing calls to that phone.  
  
If there was one feature I wish they would add is a scheduled "Do Not Disturb"
where I could tell the service to not ring through to my phone at all between
a certain time window (say 10pm to 6am). But beyond that the service does
everything I could want.

