---
layout: post
title: "Job Description Specificity"
date: 2009-03-26
comments: false
categories:
 - classifieds
---
Today on twitter I was directed to a [Job Description](http://www.careerbuilde
r.com/JobSeeker/Jobs/JobDetails.aspx?SiteID=twitter_NY_it&Job_DID=J3F1XR60GR0T
GWZ75NB&cbRecursionCnt=3&cbsid=abe43820c48d417781c72e0c8c9c8334-291381275-VC-4
) while being asked if there was anyone could possibly meet all the
"requirements" that were listed:  
  

>  
At least 3 years of experience in MBS Expert and MBS processing. BA in C.S. or
related disciplines. Proven leadership skills in technology, project
management, and communication. Proven track record in design, development,
debug/trouble shooting of complex software systems and logic. At least 5 years
in the relevant technologies: C, Motif, SQL, Sybase, Oracle, Java, J2EE,
browser-based GUI technologies such as JSF and AJAX, Solaris, Linux, GCC. CVS,
Make, Ant. Shell scripting. Must be a team player, have excellent
organization, planning and communication skills, excellent in time and issues
prioritization and management. Must se self-managed and results oriented.  

  
  
Now, the way my company does business a few of us here actually come pretty
close to meeting these requirements with the exception of the "MBS Expert" and
the "Motif" items. I've never used either of those. Plus I am opting for the
AJAX option over the JSF for "browser-based GUI technologies." This seems like
a pretty ambitious list of traits they are looking for someone to have 3 or 5
years of experience in.  
  
I also see that this job is in the financial services and securities
industries. As someone who has had the opportunity to work with the financial
services industry I have to imagine they are also looking for someone who
already understands the business language; and trust me it is an entirely
different language than is used in pretty much any other industry. This
additional unspoken requirement really limits the pool of candidates even
more.  
  
It seems to me that the people this company wants to hire are already working
for someone and they aren't out actively looking for employment.  
  
  
I wonder, do ads like this really work? Do they help companies actually find
someone or do they make them so specific that they don't even get a good pool
of candidates applying. I mean, is it really necessary to have 5 years of
Motif experience or can you just pick it up as you go since you are strong in
everything else. Or what if you've just been a backend developer - would you
really need 5 years of AJAX experience to be a strong, positive contributor to
the projects they are hiring for? I doubt it.  
  
Finally, it seems to me that most jobs people want aren't advertised this way
and most candidates that companies want aren't found this way. Instead word of
mouth seems to be the trick which brings back the old adage; "It's not what
you know but who you know." Sure, you need to your stuff but I doubt, for many
jobs, that you need such a specific skill set to be a good candidate.  
  
If we can find someone with 5 years of proven development experience where
they are creating good tests and code in any language then they will probably
be a good candidate for a project. Even when that project is in a language the
candidate hasn't used. Just like everyone else we look for smart people who
can get things done. If they have those traits they will learn what they need
to learn in order to get the job done right, on time, and on budget.  
  
I think the company that put out this ad would be better served having a more
generic set of skills they are looking for and then narrowing down the field
via interviews and then finally paying a few candidates to work with them for
a week or so to see what they are really capable of.

