---
layout: post
title: "My Chrome Netbook"
date: 2010-12-09
comments: false
categories:
 - google-chrome
 - chrome-os
 - chrome
 - google
---
Today I recieved a new prototype netbook from Google - the Chrome Netbook. I'm
not sure why I was lucky enough to be selected to be a part of the pilot
program but I think it might be because I have always, well for as long as
I've been able to, run the dev build of the Chrome web browser. Two or Three
days ago I received an update to the browser and when it restarted there was a
little green bubble on the top of a new tab asking me if I wanted to sign up
for the Chrome OS Pilot program. I was a little suspicious at first but
followed the link and saw that it was legit so I filled out the short form and
figured nothing would ever happen. Today the netbook showed up in the mail.
Pretty cool.  
  
THis isn't Engadget so you won't be seeing a series of photos detailing the
"unboxing" instead I'll try to describe the overall experience. At first I was
confused. I didn't know why I was getting a box from some guy in Kentucky. It
didn't have anything on it to suggest Google at all. THen, when I opened the
shipping box there was another cardboard box inside it. The box is decorated
with a sort of blue-print type diagram for a hamster powered rocket ship. I
thought that, perhaps, it was a gift from my Reddit secret santa. However,
when I removed the hamster box from the shipping box I saw a sticker on the
bottom warning about a lithium-ion battery. Suddenly I though, could this be a
Chrome Netbook? No way.  
  
I opened the box and sure enough, sitting before me was a very plain looking
purely black netbook. No labels, no stickers, no badges, nothing but a soft
touch matte black notebook. Heck it isn't even small like I think of netbooks,
it is closer to a 13" mac book or something. It's also very thin; but it
weighs a surprising amount. I'm not sure how much it weighs but it is
deceptively heavy for it's size.  
  
In side the box was a battery which is fills about half of the bottom of the
netbook. THere as also a power cord and a getting started card. That's it. THe
card was super simple and it said to put the battery in, turn it on gently,
and follow the welcome wizard. So I did. I put the battery in, opened the lid
(which, in this case, woke the machine up - I didn't need to hit the power
button) and I walked through the setup. I think the setup was 3 things. First,
accept a user agreement. Second, pick a wireless network - there is no RJ 45
plug.  
  
At first I couldn't connect to a wireless network because my office uses
enterprise WEP - which requires a username and a password. The network
settings only take a password and uses standard wep (as well as wpa and
something else, I can't remember). However, there is an insecure network near
my office which I was able to connect to. Immediately after connecting the
netbook began to update itself to the latest version and then it rebooted. At
that point I could either login with my google account info OR as a guest.  
  
If you login as a guest it starts a session using, effectively, incognito mode
on Chrome. I opted to start up using my login information and it instantly
imported my bookmarks, extensions, and history, etc to the chrome browser in
the OS.  
  
The OS is just about what you might imagine. It is the chrome web browser;
except there are a few small differences. First off it supports alt-tab
between different chrome windows, each chrome window is full screen so the
alt-tab feels like you're switching between desktops (imagine a desktop
manager with virtual desktops off the screen). The settings panel of this
instance of the browser has a network page which lets you pick the wireless
network you want to join to OR if you want to connect to the verizon 3G
network.  
  
Yep, it has a 3G antenna built in. However, so far, I haven't had much luck
with getting that to work. Supposedly, once I successfully activate it I'll
get 100MB of data transfer a month for free for 24 months. I can also sign up
for some kind of account for as little as $10/mo. Since I haven't gotten that
part to work yet I can't say much about it.  
  
I honestly don't know much more about the hardware inside the box. There was a
small card in the hamster box that told me it uses an intel processor but
that's all I know. I suspect it might have an SSD harddrive but that's only
because it boots up so fast.  
  
It's not instant, at least not doing a cold boot. It takes about 7-8 seconds
to get to the login screen but, once at the login screen, everything else
happens instantly. There are none of the annoyingly slow startup services or
auto-run programs going on that I deal with on my work machine. Instead, I
login and instantly I'm on the web. Plus, when I am done I don't have to wait
for the machine to sleep before closing the lid. I just close the lid and it
is asleep. That fast. Then, when I open it later it is awake as soon as I open
it. The machine doesn't take a few moments to get its' bearings. It just
works. That's pretty cool. Other things like the iPad might work like that - I
don't know, I don't have one - but this is the first computer I've had that is
this responsive in a way that just lets me get stuff done.  
  
There is a small camera built in above the monitor - but I don't know what
resolution. It also has a microphone built in right beside it. Plus there are
speakers on the back/bottom area. On the side are three ports; a power port, a
usb port, and a headphone jack. That's it. No CF card slots, no external
monitor ports, no network cable slots, nothing. Nothing on the back at all
because, once you open it the top swivels down behind the keyboard a little
and completely obscures the back of the computer.  
  
The keyboard is a bit different too. Many have already heard that Google is
killing the caps-lock key and the rumor is not an exaggeration. It is also
killing the function keys. In their place are iconified keys that do most of
what you need. One goes back, one forward, one for refresh, one for "full
screen browser" mode, one is alt-tab, one is brightness, another anti-
brightness, then one each for mute, volume up, and volume down and finally a
power button in the top right of the keyboard.  
  
The rest of the keyboard is pretty traditional except the directional arrows
are a little crammed. Right and left are normal but up and down are both half-
height and together fit in one keys space. In place of the caps-lock key is a
magnifying glass key. That actually just opens a new tab (same as ctrl+t). For
those who want you can use all the normal keyboard shortcuts so ctrl+alt+n
opens an incognito window.  
  
Another difference between chrome the os and chrome the browser is that there
is a settings panel for changing mouse sensitivity and the date/time. Each of
the things that make it separate are completely unobtrusive though so as soon
as you boot up you feel like you're just in a webbrowser so it is pretty easy
to get your bearings and start doing things. From my perspective of nighttime
computer use; checking email, browsing the web, youtube videos, facebook and
twitter it is perfect. Obviously it wouldn't work very well for my job
(software development) but I think for most normal home computer users it will
work for the vast majority of things they would want to do. Especially
considering how many websites are the equivalent to desktop applications now a
days.  
  
With that being said I am not sure if I could use it to upload photos from my
camera. I don't know if the machine will communicate via USB with it. Plus,
since there is no cf slot I'm not sure how I'd transfer photos to it and then
to the web.  
  
Overall I really like the machine itself. I love the non-descript blackness of
it. I love the feel of the weird material the cover is made out of. I also
really like the keyboard. However, I am having trouble adjusting to the
unusual, to me, track pad. There is no scroll area, no buttons to right click
with, it is just a track pad area. However, if you want to right click you
have to click with two fingers. I'm not very good at that yet though so most
of the time my right clicks don't seem to register. I'm not sure if my fingers
are too close together or if I am not clicking hard enough. I think, maybe, I
am supposed to put both fingers down then press and the whole pad kind of
clicks; it's weird. You can also scroll by swiping two fingers up or down the
pad. That works much better for me than the right click but it just isn't
normal for me yet so I tend to move my mouse around a lot because I just swipe
one finger down the right side of the track pad like I can at work.  
  
I couldn't find any reference that said I'm not allowed to talk about the book
so hopefully I'm not breaking the rules. Overall I'm pretty psyched about it;
though I have reported 3 different things so far for the engineers at Google
to consider. If you have any questions just ask and if I can answer them I'll
do what I can.

## Comments

Kenneth

Hi Bill, thanks for your post! Haha, so far all I've done is posted "unboxing"
photos, but haven't had a chance to write a whole lot about my experience with
the Cr-48. I experienced a similar confusion initially about what could
possibly be inside the box, since there was nothing to indicate it was from
Google!  
  
Interesting that you found it heavier than expected. My primary machine is a
13.3-inch Macbook Pro, so by comparison, the Chrome OS Notebook feels quite
light to me! Anyway, I will post more on my blog as I continue to use the
device. Hope you enjoy yours!

