---
layout: post
title: "How to Get Group Consensus"
date: 2011-09-15
comments: false
categories:
 - project planning
 - prioritization.
 - groupthink
 - priorities
---
This is a post I started writing a few years ago (March 2008) but never
published for some reason...  
  
I don't have any first hand experience with the KJ Technique but it sounds
pretty promising.  I can't explain it as well as this linked article does so
I'll just send you there.  However, if you have already used this technique
(or something like it) and have some feedback I'd love it if you left a
comment.  
  
[The KJ-Technique: A Group Process for Establishing
Priorities](http://www.uie.com/articles/kj_technique/)  
I actually came across this article via Assaf Arkin's blog
[Labnotes](http://blog.labnotes.org/2008/03/23/rounded-corners-198-less-is-
the-new-black/). I just started reading his blog last week so it's already
paid off in introducing me to this new concept.  Thanks Assaf.  
  
As I started reading the article on the KJ Technique I couldn't help but
continually think about Assaf's idea of building this as a web service.  Well,
actually, it kept focusing on potential UI designs for really bringing the
power of the technique to a web-based application.  My conclusion? I'm not
very good at UI design!  My focus was more on how to bring this concept to a
distributed team without need of some kind of teleconference.  How can you
simulate the sticky-notes that can be grouped - or regrouped by different non-
directly-communicating team members? If you can come up with a good UI that
clearly communicates the shift of a sticky from one group to another (or a
total merging of groups) by a remote user to all other users in the group it
would be fantastic.  In fact, if it was really clear what was going on all the
time and everyone could keep messing with the virtual sticky-notes I almost
think a distributed version of the KJ-Technique would be better than the one
described in the article because it would really help enforce the "no
discussion" rule for the first 2/3's of the process.

