---
layout: post
title: "Google+ : My Favorite Feature So Far"
date: 2011-07-04
comments: false
categories:
 - google+
---
When I first heard about Google+ I thought that circles would be my favorite
feature. I thought having an easy way to filter who I published things to
would be great. And, so far, it is. However, there is another aspect of
circles that I like even more. They are helping me find people who share my
interests and who have interesting things to talk about.  
  
For example, with this Blog I talk about development stuff leaning mostly
towards Cold Fusion development. Thus when I was defining my circles I created
a ColdFusion circle and put some folks like Sean Corfield and Marc Esher in my
CF circle. They both usually have interesting stuff to talk about in regards
to CF and so I'm happy they both also put me into a circle that also seems to
deal with development topics.  
  
These relationships were previously defined though. We've all communicated in
some fashion or another online either via twitter, a forum, or facebook.
Because of these relationships I trust that the people they are talking to
about development stuff actually care about it and probably have something to
add to the conversation at some point. Thus, when one of them posts about a
development topic to a limited audience I can look at the other members of the
limited audience and instantly find other people who share that particular
interest. I can't, necessarily, hear what they have to say - but I can begin
to form a new relationship with these people by putting them in one of my
circles.  
  
Once they are in my circle they will start to see some of my content on that
topic. If they like what I have to say they will most likely add me to their
development circle and then I'll start hearing what they have to say and we
will begin an online relationship around our shared interest in development..
If they don't like what I have to say they will just ignore me and the
relationship will be terminated - which is fine.  
  
This works for any topic I'm interested in. I might have a C# circle or a Disc
Golf or a Mountain Bike circle and, in each, I might find; via the extended
circles, others who share my interest and who I might want to have a lasting
conversation with.  
  
Circles, for me, aren't as much about filtering for who hears what I have to
say but are about finding people who have something to say I want to hear.

