---
layout: post
title: "Lifetime doesn't really mean Lifetime"
date: 2012-08-16
comments: false
---
Years ago I signed up with Joyent (they were called TextDrive back then) for a
lifetime account called "Mixed Grill" or something equally nonsensical.  They
were basically selling accounts for hundreds of dollars to help them raise
money to grow with the deal being that if you upfronted all the cash they
would give you lifetime hosting.   Lifetime to me meant as long as TextDrive
was around as a company.  
  
TextDrive changed their name a few years ago to Joyent and some of the added
services that came with my mixed grill were sold off (SharedSpace for example)
and others were killed but the hosting part remained and I was content.  I use
my hosting to hold onto a variety of non-profit websites and my moms blog.
That's it.  The quality of service on my hosting has always long been shaky
but it's been good enough.  It turns out, however, that lifetime didn't really
mean Joyent's lifetime or my lifetime.  It just meant until Joyent decided to
stop supporting it.  Today I received this email:  
  

> Action Required:

>

> Legacy Service End of Life

>

>  

>

> Dear William Rawlinson,

>

> We've been analyzing customer usage of Joyent's systems and noticed that you
are one of the few customers that are still on our early products and have not
migrated to our new platform, the Joyent Cloud.  
  
For many business reasons, including infrastructure performance, service
quality and manageability, these early products are nearing their End of Life.
We plan to sunset these services on October 31, 2012 and we'd like to walk you
through a few options.  
  
We understand this might be an inconvenience for you, but we have a plan and
options to make this transition as easy as possible.  We've been developing
more functionality on our new cloud infrastructure, the Joyent Cloud, for our
customers who care about performance, resiliency and security.  Now's the time
to take advantage of all the new capabilities you don't have today. Everyone
that's moved to our new cloud infrastructure has been pleased with the
results.  
>

> We appreciate and value you as one of **_Joyent's lifetime Shared Hosting
customers_**. As this service is one of our earliest offerings, and has now
run its course, your lifetime service will end on October 31, 2012. However,
we believe that you will enjoy the new functionalities of the Joyent Cloud. To
show you our appreciation, as one of Joyent's lifetime Shared Hosting
customers, we'd like to offer you a free 512MB SmartMachine on the Joyent
Cloud for one year. Use this promotional code to redeem the offer.

>

> Promotional Code: *******************  
>

> Please review the Terms and Conditions for the Joyent Cloud One Year Free
512 MB Machine Promotion by visiting this link.  
To find out more about the Joyent Cloud and your options, please follow this
link to our migration center for additional details.  

>

> Sincerely,

>

> Jason Hoffman

>

> Founder and CTO  

>

> Joyent

>

> [jason@joyent.com](mailto:jason@joyent.com)

  
 I added the emphasis on "Joyent's lifetime Shared Hosting customers" just to
show that I'm not the only party in this deal that called it lifetime.  They
still call it that.  Yet they are killing it.  I suppose, since the shared
hosting itself is being killed the product's lifetime is ending but the
concept still kind of sucks.  
  
I'm doubtful that I'll take them up on their one year of free 512MB Joyent
Cloud offer.  After my free year it will cost my $275/year to maintain it.
And, frankly, I can't justify giving Joyent anymore of my money.  The service
I've received in the past hasn't been that great (shabby really) and now they
are violating the spirit of the deal I signed up for in the first place.  I'm
really disappointed.  
  
I'm not sure where I'm going to move my websites.  I'm also not sure how I'm
going to pay for the move.  I've not put adds on the non-profit pages before
since I didn't have to worry about hosting costs. Now I might end up doing
just that.  
  
Boo Joyent.

## Comments

bsoist

I received the same email because I had a server that was not lifetime, but
the term was for five years and expires in 2013.  
  
They did make it clear in all the fine print that lifetime didn't really men
lifetime, but they have not been friendly about anything.  
  
I never used the server anyway. Everytime I went to try and set it up, they
had changed something about it so I had to get support to set it back up
again.  
  
I gave up on them a few years ago.

andrea

another "lifetime" customer here. (i'm guessing there's more than just a "few"
of us left, contrary to what the email states.) so, basically i paid $57 a
year seven years in advance for not-that-great hosting? had i known that seven
years ago, i would have never signed up to be a VC.  
  
what also sucks is that i really believed that textdrive would honor the deal
- and joyent in its' place, once they bought textdrive. i knew the service
wasn't stellar, but it was ok for my super-low-traffic personal site, and
now.. now i just feel like a naive idiot for having believed in them.

Bill Rawlinson

I signed up in August of 2006 ; that's only 72 months so it works out to about
$6.94/mo for me.

Daryl

I'm also one of the "few" currently dissatisfied customers. I signed up for
the Mixed Grill in February 2006.  
  
When you do the math, $500 for 92 months of hosting works out to $5.50 a
month. This sounds fairly average hosting cost nowadays, especially given the
poor uptime and slow upgrade process I've experienced.

Jeremy Cherfas

Add another dissatisfied customer. If this is the way they choose to recognize
early investors, well, we all get the picture.  
  
I'm not sure I can afford the annual fee either, and I also don't really think
I have the technical chops to manage a smart machine, whatever that is.  
  
I have a passing acquaintance with Amazon cloud services, and as all I have
hosted are WordPress blogs, I may look into that. I don't mind paying, I do
resent broken promises.

Phil

Another mixed grill and VC200 user here, also had this email in my inbox
today. I would laugh about it if it wasn't so darn dissapointing.  
  
I sure hope none of the joyent folks ever gets married. The whole "lifetime"
part might not go so well with the spouse.

Anonymous

Another Textdrive "Lifetime" customer here that's just come home to the same
Joyent email. Perhaps I always suspected it'd come to this but, like you,
there's no way I can afford 275 bucks pa. I only run three low-traffic vanilla
blogs and never even got around to sorting out email! Dunno where I'm gonna go
or indeed where to start looking!

Bill Rawlinson

I went back and rechecked - the Mixed Grill was $500  
  
Sure, it's not a fortune but it sure felt like it when I signed up!

Anonymous

I'm got the same email today. They seem to be messing with the spirit of the
agreement. If they want to end shared hosting, they should be offering us a
lifetime cloud account with equivalent disk space, processing speed, etc. I
think I'm going to talk to a lawyer friend about this. I purchased the three-
martini package which I think was about $1K. Mike

