---
layout: single
title: "Disc Golf - 2025 - Preview and Results"
intro:
category: blogging
tags: [disc-golf]
comments: false
featured: true
---
I've always used this site to talk about _work_ stuff but I think I'm going to have a bit more fun with it.  So in that vein I'm going to kick it off with some disc golf.

Last year I played in 19 tournaments!  That was, easily, a personal record.  Eighteen of them were amatuer and one professional.  I won 5 of the amatuer events and the one professional.  Overall, it was a good year.  This year I don't think I'll play in as many - but I have played in four so far and have registered for five more already. If you are really curious you can follow along with my schedule on [disc golf scene](https://www.discgolfscene.com/profile/20634).  For official "sanctioned" events you can also check out my [PDGA profile](https://www.pdga.com/player/96685).

So far this year I've played "okay" but haven't really done anything outstanding.  In my two pro events I have come in last place.  In this past event I was only 2 strokes behind the winner but I was still in last (of 3 players).  Pretty disappointing.  In my one Advanced event (playing against mostly younger, better, players) I did pretty well and finished in 5 out of 15.

In addition to the events I am scheduled for this year already I have a bunch on my "watchlist" - 13 in fact!  Wow.  Also one I know I will be at which isn't "watchable" yet.  I may actually surpass last years record.  I have a problem.

Im most excited about the [Tennessee State Championship](https://www.pdga.com/tour/event/86667).  It will be the biggest event I've played in and I'm playing in the MP50 (mixed-gender, pro 50 years and older).  It should be a big challenge and a lot of fun.

I started the season with a rating of 919.  So far it has fallen, already, to a 915.  I have 11 career wins in 82 events.  Historically, I've gunned for at least 1 win per 10 events.  I'm ahead of that would like to stay there.  Last year was so successful for me it will be hard to surpass.  However, I still have some goals for this year that I think are achievable.

<div class="notice--info"><h4>Goals</h4>
<ul>
<li>[&nbsp;&nbsp;] End of Year Rating &gt; 920</li>
<li>[&nbsp;&nbsp;] At least one tournament victory</li>
<li>[&nbsp;&nbsp;] At least one "cash" position in a pro event</li>
</ul>
</div>

As I compete I'll keep this post update with my results and track my season goals.  I may have some individual posts based on certain events.  Stay tuned!
<!---
Event,Division,Pro,Competitors,Place,Strokes from 1st,Notes
Ice Bowl,MA2,N,17,2,-,lost in playoff
Capital City Classic,MP40,Y,4,4,10,ass whipping
Wine Cellar Showdown,MA1,N,15,5,6,only one round; ass whipping
Spring Break at Goliath,MP50,Y,3,3,2,good second round
--->

| Event                   | Division | Pro | Competitors | Place | Strokes from 1st | Notes                        |
|-------------------------|----------|-----|-------------|-------|------------------|------------------------------|
| Ice Bowl                | MA2      | N   | 17          | 2     | -                | lost in playoff              |
| Capital City Classic    | MP40     | Y   | 4           | 4     | 10               | ass whipping                 |
| Wine Cellar Showdown    | MA1      | N   | 15          | 5     | 6                | only one round; ass whipping |
| Spring Break at Goliath | MP50     | Y   | 3           | 3     | 2                | good second round            |
